OCR text extraction from SKM_C251i26041513530.pdf
Preserved with page breaks and approximate original line layout.

===== PAGE 1 =====

 Racism Chains Both, c. 1970
 Hugo Gellert
 By 1928, Hugo Gellert (1892-1985) had abandoned the fine art world to better disseminate his
 ideals of leftist and anti-fascist thought, embracing murals, posters, and newspaper prints. This
 poster, sponsored by the Communist Party USA and the National Black Liberation Commission,
 depicts the hands of a Black man and a white man handcuffed together by the shared burden of
 racial injustice.
 Workers' Rights Amendment sign, 2022
 On November 8, 2022, over two million people voted to amend the Illinois constitution to give
 workers the "fundamental right to organize and to bargain collectively through representatives of
 their own choosing for the purpose of negotiating wages, hours, and working conditions, and to
 protect their economic welfare and safety at work." This amendment was among the first of its
 kind passed in the United States and represents a push back against right-to-work laws recently
 enacted in other Midwestern states.
 Paul Robeson in a crowd in Europe, c. 1955
 Singer, actor, and political activist Paul Robeson was one of the first performers to be blacklisted
 from television because of his vocal support for socialism. The US government also confiscated
 Robeson's passport for eight years, a common government tactic during the McCarthy era. Here
 Robeson appears in a crowd of young people, possibly during a European tour in the 1950s.

 Faces of My People, 1990
 Margaret Burroughs
 Margaret Burroughs (1917-2010), a founding member of both the DuSable Museum of African
 American History and the South Side Community Art Center, was also a renowned artist in her
 own right. While Burroughs' work often includes imagery of African American leaders, history,
 and daily life, her print Faces of My People portrays figures that recognize the viewer and look
 into the real world. The print simultaneously conveys a blend of black and white along with the
 concrete and metaphysical barriers that keep them from uniting.
 Elijah Lovejoy, 1980
 Cook Glassgold
 In the summer of 1836, abolitionist newspaper editor Elijah Lovejoy moved across the
 Mississippi River from St. Louis, Missouri (a slavery state) to Alton, Illinois (a non-slavery
 state) to protect himself and his printing operation from death threats. When he acquired a fourth
 printing press in 1837, a pro-slavery mob attacked his warehouse and killed Lovejoy for his
 views. Cook Glassgold (1899-1985) created this painting memorializing Lovejoy. Glassgold
 also served as a Whitney Museum curator and released a collection of his work called The
 Martyrs. Published in 1981, this volume documented significant historical events connected by
 the theme of justice.



===== PAGE 2 =====

 [This is meant as a biographical label about Toney to go somewhere near most of his paintings.]
 Anthony Toney (1913-2004)
 Born in Gloversville, New York in 1913 to Syrian immigrant parents, Toney was a muralist for
 the Works Progress Administration during the Great Depression. In the 1930s, he left his art
 studies in France to fight fascism in the Spanish Civil War as a part of the Abraham Lincoln
 Brigade. He later served in the US military during World War II. In the 1950s, he began teaching
 at The New School in New York City. Toney's experiences with combat inspired and grounded
 his perspective as an anti-Vietnam War protestor.
 Untitled, 1979
 Anthony Toney
 This piece is a prime example of Toney's work. Many of his pieces depict protests and crowds in
 his distinctly colorful style. Within the crowd, each person retains their unique features. Each
 express one in a wide array of emotions, but together they are united in fighting for their cause.
 A few figures rose above the crowd, illuminated in yellow. They point towards something in the
 distance. The most striking detail is the giant toppled stone head in the background. Even with
 elements of color, the stone head's grey tone contrasts subtly with the gathered crowd.
 Two Cities, 1981
 Anthony Toney
 Toney's daughter, Anita Toney, believed her father depicted in this painting combined the urban
 landscapes of New York and San Francisco. The houses bathed in sunlight towards the upper-
 right are reminiscent of San Francisco's iconic, colorful, Victorian-style houses. Toney's
 captivating blend of realism and cubism captures the spirit of the urban environment. His bold
 colors give life to the inhabitants he paints on the streets of the two cities.
 Untitled, 1968
 Anthony Toney
 In this painting, three female figures lead a lengthy line of people carrying peace signs. The
 figure on the left is skeletal, her skull and ribs exposed to the viewer. The figure to the right is a
 defined nude female figure. The figure in the middle works as a visual transition between the
 two. Given Toney's commitment to the anti-war movement, it is likely that the marchers
 depicted here are the Jeanette Rankin Brigade. In 1968, 5,000 women marched towards the US
 Capitol Building to protest the Vietnam War
 Peace Museum poster, c. 1981
 Mark Rogovin
 Founded by muralist Mark Rogovin (1946-2019) and activist Marjorie Craig Benton in 1981, the
 Peace Museum was a cultural learning center that aimed to spark public consciousness of
 peacebuilding through the visual, literary, and performing arts. This inaugural poster designed by
 Rogovin features a print by illustrator Fritz Eichenberg, who also created artwork for The
 Catholic Worker and advocated for social justice and nonviolence.



===== PAGE 3 =====

 Communist Party Campaign poster, Chicago, 1976
 Gus Hall served as the Communist Party USA's General Secretary from 1959 until 2000. Jarvis
 Tyner was the party's Executive Vice Chair from 1984 to 2014. Ishmael Flory, originally born in
 Louisiana, lived in Chicago for much of his life. He was president of the Chicago chapter of the
 National Negro Congress. The three ran together on the CPUSA ticket in 1976. Angela Davis, an
 influential Marxist and feminist political activist and writer, was a longtime member of the
 CPUSA and a speaker at this rally.
 Lozano for 22nd Ward poster, Chicago, 1983
 Rudy Lozano was a labor activist and community organizer. He spent most of his life in the
 Little Village and Pilsen neighborhoods. Lozano played a significant role in organizing Latinx
 support for the 1983 election of Mayor Harold Washington, the city's first Black mayor. In the
 same election, he ran for city council member of the city's 22nd ward but narrowly lost. Not long
 after, Lozano was tragically shot to death in his home. Many believe that his murder was a
 political assassination.
 Rudy Lozano with Mayor Harold Washington, c. 1983
 photographer unknown
 Rudy Lozano's activism began in his Chicago high school where he staged a walkout to protest
 the lack of resources available to Latinx students. His activism only grew from there, as he
 supported the Center for Autonomous Social Action to improve the Pilsen neighborhood.
 Though he lost his own campaign for city council in 1983, Lozano used his ability to organize
 and brought together multiracial support for Harold Washington's mayoral election. Lozano was
 killed in his own home and remains a martyr for activism in the city.
 Mother Jones, 1977
 Peggy Lipschutz
 This painting of Mary Harris Jones, better known as Mother Jones, is special because it depicts
 one of the most important Chicago-based labor activists and is also painted by one. Jones (1830-
 1930) organized and participated in strikes throughout her career. She proudly called herself a
 "hell-raiser" and came to be known as "the grandmother of all agitators." Lipschutz (1918-2019)
 spent her career using her art and illustrations to make political theory, labor issues, and social
 justice concerns accessible for everyone.
 Lawrence 1912: The Bread and Roses Strike poster, 1977
 Ralph Fasanella
 Before devoting himself full time to painting, Ralph Fasanella was an active organizer for United
 Electrical Workers (UE) and fought fascism in the Spanish Civil War (1936-1939) as a member
 of the Abraham Lincoln Brigade. These experiences would go on to shape the crux of his
 artwork: the social reality of political unrest, depicted with bright colors and dense compositions.
 Here, Fasanella paints the Lawrence Textile Strike of 1912, which saw workers come together
 following a pay cut for women and defied assumptions that immigrant, female, and ethnically
 divided workers could not be organized. Fasanella gave this print to Mark Rogovin, artist,
 activist, and Peace Museum founder, in 1981.



===== PAGE 4 =====

 Claude Lightfoot, 1973
 unknown artist
 Claude M. Lightfoot (1910-1991) moved from Arkansas to Chicago during the Great Migration.
 Shaped by the 1919 Race Riot and the Great Depression, he joined the Communist Party USA in
 1931. Lightfoot enlisted in the U.S. Army a decade later. The bigoted and racist treatment of
 communists and Black soldiers in the Army strengthened his convictions. The US government
 arrested him in 1954 under the Smith Act, accusing Lightfoot of plotting to overthrow the
 government. The Supreme Court overturned his conviction in 1964. Lightfoot remained a
 leading communist voice for social and economic justice throughout his life.

 Sketches from The Daily Worker, various dates
 The Daily Worker, one of the Communist Party USA's marquee publications, fought continual
 legal battles for freedom of speech and press. The paper ran from 1924 to 1956.
 Like other CPUSA publications, The Daily Worker supported the Civil Rights Movement and
 adamantly opposed McCarthyism. These themes echo throughout the sketches with the backdrop
 of the Cold War and deindustrialization.
 JOIN Recruitment poster, Chicago, c. 1965
 Jobs or Income Now (JOIN) was a community union based on Chicago's North Side. Active in
 the 1960s and 70s, JOIN argued that poverty arose from political inequality not individual
 failing. JOIN focused on providing direct assistance, through jobs or financial assistance, to
 white southern migrants residing in Uptown. Peggy Terry, JOIN's most well-known leader, ran
 for US vice-president on the 1968 Peace and Freedom Party ticket with Black Panther Eldridge
 Cleaver.
 United Auto Workers (UAW) Region 8 poster, c. 1965
 In the 1960s, the UAW supported retaining New Deal initiatives from the 1930s and the new
 Great Society programs of US President Lyndon B. Johnson. E. T. Michael, named on this
 poster, served as director of the UAW Region 8 in the southeastern US during the 1960s.
 United Farmer Workers (UFW) Salad Bowl strike poster, Chicago, 1970
 In August 1970, as many as 7,000 UFW members struck against the Salinas Valley growers on
 the central California coast. With support from other unions, shipments of lettuce ground to a
 halt and prices doubled. In late September, the UFW called for boycotts of all lettuce not grown
 by UFW workers, and violence began to break out in the fields. UFW co-founders Cesar Chávez
 (wearing hat) and Dolores Huerta (using megaphone) appear in the poster. During this strike, law
 enforcement jailed Chávez for disobeying a court order to cease picketing. The strike ended in
 March 1971.



===== PAGE 5 =====

 Albert and Lucy Parsons, no date
 Shelly Vidmar
 On May 4, 1886, workers—protesting poor working conditions, low wages, and the police
 murder of strikers—gathered in Chicago's Haymarket Square, which is in today's West Loop.
 The rally turned deadly when a bomb exploded, prompting police to open fire on the workers
 This bombing and subsequent trial became known as the Haymarket Affair.
 Portrayed here are Albert and Lucy Parsons. Born into slavery in the 1850s, Lucy, whom the
 police labeled "more dangerous than a thousand rioters," encouraged workers to resist
 oppression. Albert, a former Confederate soldier turned Radical Republican, was a labor leader
 and anarchist in Chicago.
 After the bombing, a Chicago jury convicted eight men, including Parsons, of conspiracy to
 commit the bombing, though authorities never identified the bomber. Prosecutors argued
 Parsons' speeches and writings inspired the violence. He received a death sentence.

 Before his 1887 execution, Parsons wrote:
   Falter not. Lay bare the inequities of capitalism; expose the slavery of law; proclaim
   the tyranny of government; denounce the greed, cruelty, abominations of the
   privileged class who riot and revel on the labor of their wage-slaves.

 Thanksgiving Day Protest March of 1884, no date
 Shelly Vidmar
 On November 27, 1884, a crowd of at least several hundred gathered to hear anarchist and labor
 leader Albert Parsons among others speak at Chicago's Market Square in the West Loop. "We
 are assembled," Parsons proclaimed, "here on this day of National Thanksgiving to curse the
 capitalistic robbers... We are justified in cursing these vipers by the Bible." This protest
 foreshadowed the explosion at Haymarket that would occur less than two years later.
 Patrick "Paddy" Whalen, 1935
 Alice Neel
 Born in 1884, Whalen was a communist activist and union organizer in Baltimore. In 1936,
 Whalen supported the International Longshoremen's Association's fight to raise wages and
 combat blacklisting. Here, painter Alice Neel accentuates Whalen's focused expression. His
 large, closed fist descends on a copy of the Daily Worker, the official newspaper of the
 Communist Party USA. Neel portrays Whalen's unwavering approach in fighting for workers'
 rights.



===== PAGE 6 =====

 Frank Lumpkin State Representative campaign poster, Chicago, 1988
 Born to Georgia sharecroppers in 1916, Frank Lumpkin became a professional boxer,
 construction worker, merchant marine, steelworker, and a leader in the Communist Party USA.
 Lumpkin led the fight against Chicago's Wisconsin Steel Works after it closed suddenly in 1980.
 Lumpkin, who worked at Wisconsin Steel, with his wife Bea Lumpkin organized the Wisconsin
 Steel Save Our Jobs Committee and led a 17-year fight for justice. Under his leadership, the
 Wisconsin Steel workers won $19 million in court settlements against Wisconsin Steel's
 successor companies. Lumpkin ran several times for a seat in the state legislature.
 People's Bicentennial Festival poster, Chicago, 1976
 Among the many celebrations held on the 200th anniversary of the United States, the People's
 Bicentennial festival was the Communist Party USA's marquee event. For the finale of the
 CPUSA's four-day national convention, future presidential candidate Gus Hall, and other
 activists, reflected on the nation's struggle with racial oppression and the recent conclusion of
 the Vietnam War.
 Harold Washington Re-Election Campaign poster, Chicago, 1987
 "We have destroyed the dinosaur," are now famous words from Chicago's 51st mayor, Harold
 Washington, upon his successful election in 1983. Washington fought both the Daley machine
 and Republican candidate Bernard Epton, to become Chicago's first Black mayor. Washington's
 campaign united many of the city's communities under the slogan, "Let's come together for one
 City." His successful 1987 re-election campaign, which used posters like this one, would come
 shortly before his sudden death that same year.
 Angela Davis portrait, no date
 unknown artist
 "I am no longer accepting the things I cannot change," Angela Davis declared. "I am changing
 the things I cannot accept." These words represent Davis's relentless pursuit of social justice. In
 1970, law enforcement accused Davis of murders connected to the armed takeover of a Marin
 County, California courtroom. Her 1972 trial drew international attention in part because of the
 weakness of the prosecution's case and its obvious political nature.
 Eventually, acquitted of all charges, the Free Angela Davis Movement became a galvanizing
 moment for many. Along with her social justice activism, Davis became a professor at the
 University of California Santa Cruz. Davis also became a founding member of the organization
 Critical Resistance which sought to abolish the prison-industrial complex.



===== PAGE 7 =====

 Untitled silkscreen print, c. 1965
 Elton Bennett
 In his entire lifetime, Elton Bennett (1910-1974) never sold a silkscreen print for more than $15.
 After the Great Depression derailed his first attempt to study art, Bennett worked in milling,
 fishing, and dredging before his wife Flora encouraged him to pursue silkscreen printing full-
 time. This print, which demonstrates Bennett's typical style of representing humans as
 silhouettes, depicts fishermen netting smelt, a scene of the working waterfront familiar in the
 Pacific Northwest where he grew up.
 Solidarity Day March poster, Washington, D.C., 1981
 In August 1981, the Professional Air Traffic Controllers Organization (PATCO) went on strike,
 seeking improved working conditions for high stress experienced on the job. After two days of
 striking, however, President Ronald Reagan fired over 11,000 PATCO members and replaced
 them with non-union workers. Solidarity Day emerged as a response to Reagan's union-busting
 policies just a few weeks after the PATCO strike. Over 250,000 people marched and protested
 on Solidarity Day.
